#Free-writing activity

Think of a time when you had to come up with something that was meant to be fun for someone else, or a group of other people (a party, a game, weekend plans, etc.). How did you approach the planning? What worked or didn’t work? How did you use knowledge of the person or people to customize your plans? 

I was inspired by ideas of other parties that I enjoyed and had fun at. I made modifications that made it fit into the scenerio a little bit better. I left out parts that I didn't like very much. I also let people know that there was going to be a game so that they were left with some suspense. This suspense left everyone equally intrigued but also equally unprepared for what they were going to be embarking on. I knew some of the interests of the people that I was going to be hosting at the party so that the game would be fair for everyone and that everyone would have a decent chance at excelling at different portions. I also made the game such that people would have to interact with one another since many of the people didn't know each other. This forced them to not only talk with one another but they also had to find out the strengths and weaknesses of the other people that they were talking to within in the context of the game. No one ended up being antisocial and hoarding their own information to themselves because they knew that other peoples' collaboration, no matter how good they were, would outweigh their maximum potential. I also made rewards for the success in the game which made people have positive incentive instead of negative incentive because pressure and risk of punishment doesn't work very well at ispiring people to do things. Once someone cheated in the game, I ended up modifying the prize because I knew that he had cheated. I did this because others that were aware that he cheated would feel unfairly treated if I ended up rewarding him for clearly cheating. This would come across as unfair so I tipped the scales to make it seem more fair.
I think fairness is very important because people who lose at things want some kind of justifiable explanation for why they lost. Like the reading for today, it should be attributable to lack of skill, investment of time or luck. This game seems like a transient goal as we could play it again and there would be different questions or it were changed by someone else then it would basically be a new run where a new winner would come out. Winning this time doesn't affect next times chances. Therefore having similar base skills makes people feel like they are able to compete. If they don't feel like there's any chance that they can compete, then they will feel much less inspired to even try. That means that they won't be participating the actual part of the game that is supposed to be fun: interacting with the other people at the party playing the game. The fact that I could change the reward for the cheating winner at the end is a chance aspect. He couldn't know that I would switch the sum of the game up on him. I think this also made it more fun for other people because they saw him suffering from what he was inflicting on other people as they experienced him cheating.
